Linux Operating System and Basics of Shell Scripting

Operating System:-
Operating system is a medium between our hardware and software.
Like Android mobile—consider Samsung. So Samsung creates a mobile which has RAM, battery, speakers. On top of that, it installs the Android OS so user can interact with hardware    easily and also installs external apps.
So in simple words, operating system is used to communicate with the hardware.
Whenever any external app wants to use any hardware, OS helps the app to communicate with the hardware.

Ex of OS --> Mac, Windows, Linux, Android

Linux is a free operating system open source and its secure—so thats why its used highly in industry.

Key features of Linux OS:
free

open source

secure

fast

Basic Architecture of Linux:
Linux architecture consists of:

kernel

system libraries

system software

applications

compilers

shell

Kernel
Kernel is the heart of our operating system
It is used to make communication between our hardware and software
Key features of kernel are:

device management

memory management

process management

CPU

System Libraries
If a user installs any application and that application wants to communicate with the hardware (like memory, CPU, etc.)
it requests that to the system libraries
System libraries consist of a set of functions or programs which are used to communicate with the kernel
So that request goes to the system library, and then system libraries ask those things to kernel

Compiler
In simple words, a compiler converts human-readable source code into machine code (executable format) that a computer can understand and run.

Application
Application means the external applications like games, Chrome—means anything that is started by user

System Software
Basic programs for managing the system (disk utilities, text editors, etc.)

Shell Scripting -->
It is a way of talking with the OS.
Like Linux has shell commands, ex --> ls, top, touch.
In Windows we have like graphical interface for all that things—creating file, deleting it, etc.
So like that on Linux we have shell commands

shell scripting is very handy when it comes to automating tasks or working with system-level stuff